# finalyearproject
This repository contains my final year project for 4th year of college. It is developed in Android and it is a social media project.
It aims to allow a user to search for local astro pitches near them by setting the distance parameter eg give me the nearest astro pitches
5km. The users will be able to advertise for players to play an astro game if they need an extra player. They will be able to message other
users of the app. They will be able to set up a username and profile picture. It will be developed in Android studio using Java and will use
Firebase database for backend storage, setting up user login accounts and user uploads eg profile pictures. The project utilized various Google API's like Google Places Web Service for each astro pitches information like phone number opening hours etc. It uses Google's Volley library to retrieve the JSON object from the web service. It will then be parsed in the code into the various details needed for the astro pitch. It will use the Google Directions API which allows for the user to navigate to a particular astro pitch drawing a path on the Google map in the app. It uses a third party restAPI library to handle the JSON parsing for the returned direction data. It uses the restAPI service One Signal which is used to handle the notification service of the app. Users will select an option in the app to be informed of messages being sent to the astro picthes message page. This is how the users are informed of astro pitch matches or just allows for general conversion of users of the app. This project contained some multi threading to set up the One Signal notification system for the app. It used the Android Async Task class to create threads of execution for each notification restAPI call needed for to send out the notification messages to the users.
